<!---
Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
--->

# Verify Token Transfer #

## Goal ##

This scenario uses issued tokens as a means of testing multi-user
scenarios. The intent is that a contract can be created by one
identity and transferred to another running in a completely separated
environment. The test uses two separate docker containers to simulate
to distinct user environments. Token transfer is used to leverage the
existance of the token notebook that is independent of all contract
creation operations making it easier to import an existing contract.

## Setup ##

**Prepare the multiuser Jupyter docker test.** To start the services,
run `make -C docker test_multiuser_jupyter` from the PDO contracts
root directory. When the services start the two Jupyter containers
(`container_1` and `container_2`) will show the access URLs. Open each
URL in a separate browser window. For the rest of this discussion, we
will refer to the windows as `container_1` (for the user) and
`container_2` (for the issuer).

**Container_1: Create the keys for the token user.** Open the
notebook `documents/getting_started.ipynb` and run all cells. Navigate
to "Create Keys" and create a new key pair for the identity
"blue_user". Refresh the list of public keys and click on the
"blue_user" key file to download the "blue_user" public key.

**Container_2: Create the keys for the token issuer.** Open the
notebook `documents/getting_started.ipynb` and run all cells. Navigate
to "Create Keys" and create a new key pair for the identity
"blue_issuer". Refresh the public and private key lists to verify
that the keys have been created.

**Container_2: Import the "blue_user" public key into the issuer.**
Navigate to the "Create Keys" section and import the the "blue_user"
public key that was downloaded earlier. Refresh the public key list to
verify that the key was uploaded successfully.

**Container_2: Create the service group.** Navigate to "Create Service
Group" and create a new three new service groups, one each for the
enclave, provisioning and storage services (select each of the tabs
separately). Select the first three services of each type for each
group. Call each of the groups "issuer_group". For the storage
service group, set the required duration to 3600. Refresh each of the
group lists to verify that the groups have been created.

## Test ##

**Container_2: Create the token issuer and the tokens.** From the
launcher open the notebook in
`exchange/factories/token_issuer.ipynb`. Run all cells. Respond to the
prompts as follows:

* Identity: `blue_issuer`
* Name of the token class: `blue_widget`
* Token description: `my token`
* Count: 5
* Service group: `issuer_group`

This will create a link to a token issuer notebook. Click on the link
to open the token issuer notebook. Run all cells. You can verify that
the tokens were correctly created in the "Mint the Tokens"
section. The last line in the output should say "5 tokens minted".

In the "Create Token Notebooks" section, edit the code block and
replace `%%skip True` with `%%skip False`. Then run the cell to
generate a new notebook for each of the tokens. There should be five
links in the output section, each labelled with the token's name.

Click on "Token token_1" to open the `token_1` notebook. Run all
cells. To verify that the notebook is correct, in the "Invoke Echo
Operation" section, change `%%skip True` to `%%skip False` and run the
cell. The output should contain the string parameter from the
invocation.

In the "Transfer Ownership" section, change `%%skip True` to `%%skip
False` and change `user2` to `blue_user`. Run the cell. The output
should indicate that the token has been transferred.

In the "Share Contract" section, change `%%skip True` to `%%skip
False` and run the cell. This should create a "Download Contract"
button. Click the button and save the contract collection file.

**Shell: Move the contract collection file.** Move the contract
collection file downloaded in the previous step into the
`docker/xfer/client` directory where you are running to contracts
docker containers. The name of the file will be something like
`blue_widget_<ID>.zip` where ID is a unique identifier for the
contract.

**Container_1: Import and run the token contract.** From the launcher
open the notebook in `exchange/factories/token_import.ipynb`. Run all
cells. Repond to the prompts as follows:

* Identity: `blue_user`
* Name of the token class: `blue_widget`
* Name of the token: `token_1`
* Name of the token import file: `/project/pdo/xfer/client/blue_widget_<ID>.zip`

This will create a link to a token notebook. Click on the link to
open the notebook. Run all cells. To verify that the notebook is
correct, in the "Invoke Echo Operation" section, change `%%skip True`
to `%%skip False` and run the cell. The output should contain the
string parameter from the invocation.
